DOCKER Assignment


1. Install Docker, either on your native OS or on a VM. Make sure it runs. type "docker -v" to check if it's installed.
try below commands for help
docker --help ---> This command shows all available options and commands to work with images and containers
docker images --help ---> This command shows all the avaialble options and commands to work with docker images
docker ps --help ---> This command shows all the avaialble options and commands to work with docker containers
2. Find a image from dockerhub of your choice(recommeded: nginx), don't use browser, pull the official image from dockerhub
Ans.  docker run nginx / docker pull nginx
3. List all the available images in your machine/vm, make sure you see recently pulled image in the list.
Ans. docker image ls / docker ps -a images
4. Find out the "Full" ImageId of the image that you pulled and write it below.
Ans. docker image -q ( 822b7ec2aaf2) (size 133MB)
5. Create a container of your image
Ans. docker create --name MyNginx nginx


6. List all the running container
 Docker ps
docker ps -a (running & stopped)
docker ps -aq (quit)
docker ps -l (latest)
docker ps -s (size)




7. List all the running and stopped containers
Ans: Docker ps -a
8. Find out the "Full" containerId of the container and write it below.
Ans: docker ps id / docker run -q (674da04f1f25660d9ed9169f053faf034e70d6d62300a122c90fae0c097ecb3d)
9. Find out how many image layers are used to build this image.
Ans.docker inspect nginx / docker history nginx3
10. Get the Apache Tomcat 7 server image from the docker hub.
Ans. docker pull tomcat
11. Run the Apache Tomcat 7, I mean create a container of Apache Tomcat.
Ans: docker run tomcat
12. Find out what is the IP Address of the Apache Tomcat Container that it is running on
docker inspect tomcat
13. Which Port is it using?
Ans: port8080 -d -it tomcat
14. Try to access the Tomcat's home page from your machine/vm.
Ans. docker pull tomcat:8.0
       docker run -it --rm -p 8888:8080 tomcat:8.0 
15. What is the disk size of the Apache Tomcat image?
Ans. Apache tomcat image disk size is 356MB.
16. Find a list of all environment variables that are configured for tomcat image, can you see JAVA_HOME and CATALINA_HO ME? What did you notice about it?
17. Find out which port is exposed for tomcat?
Ans: port 8888
18. Run multiple containers of tomcat on different ports and access it's home page.
Ans:


19.pull ubuntu os from dockerhub, try to pull 2 images of ubuntu, Except the latest one.
Docker pull ubuntu:xenial
Docker pull ubuntu:rolling
20. Run the container of ubuntu in attached mode.
Ans:- docker attach MyUbuntu
21. Run the container of another ubuntu in detached mode.
 Ans: CTRL -p CTRL -q
22. Check how many ubuntu containers are running and stopped
Ans docker ps -a (running & stopped)
23. Is the tomcat container running? If no, start one.
Ans. docker run Tomcat80
24. Check the logs, generated by tomcat container(don't forget to make a request to tomcat's home page to see the log).
Ans : docker stats Tomcat80
 25. Check if the Ubuntu container is running? If no, start one in attached mode to the terminal.
Ans.docker start MyUbuntu
 docker attach MyUbuntu
26. Login as root user in ubuntu container
Ans: docker exec -u 0 bc7cf983f00b whoami
(root)
27. Create a file with naany me in root directory
28. Install software of your choice in ubuntu container using "apt-get install"
29. Now exit the ubuntu shell, are you back to your host machine, if not, come back to the host machine.
Ans. docker stop MyUbuntu
30. Check if the ubuntu container is running.
Ans.docker ps
31. Create a new ubuntu container out of the same image as that previous container in attached mode.
Ans
32. Login as a root user
33. Check if you can see the file created in the previous container, you will not see the file as well as software that you installed in the previous container. Now kill this Container.
Ans. docker kill MyUbuntu1
34. Do you have the previous ubuntu container where you created the file and installed the software? If no repeat steps 25 to 29.
35. Create an Image out of the existing container.


36. Now Create a Container out of this image and login into it to see if you can see the file and software installed by you in the previous container.
37. Do you have a running tomcat container? If yes, Stop it and kill all tomcat containers.
Ans. docker kill Tomcat8
38. Create an index.html file with following code in it:-
<h1>This is Tomcat Container</h1>
Now, Start a ubuntu container, login into the ubuntu, install nginx, access nginx's home page from the container,
Now, come out of the ubuntu container and replace the existing index.html page of nginx with above index.html page that you created, Now access the nginx server from host machine, it should display the index.html that you have created.
39. type below command:-
docker images --help
Now, try to run command that proves the concept of following three options:-
1. -a
2. -f
3. -q
write atleast 1 command using each option above and prove their concepts as described in the --help.
40. type below command:-
docker ps --help
Now, try to run command that proves the concept of following six options:-
1. -a
2. -f
3. -q
4. -n
5. -l
6. -s
write atleast 1 command using each option above and prove their concepts as described in the --help.
41. Type below command:-
docker --help
you will various sections of commands apart from options like "Managemnet Commands" and "Commands".
Write some texts below describing the use of "Management Commands".
Use each command mentioned below and prove its concepts as described in the --help desription. write what you have understood from the output of the command after its successful execution.
1. cp
2. create
3. export 
4. history
5. info
6. login
7. logout
8. rename
9. save
10. stats
11. top
42. Kill all running container in one liner command.
43. Delete all images in one liner command.
44. Create a simple Dockerfile, build it and run it.
45. Create one or more Dockerfile that demostrate the following commands in Dockerfile (Write a PoC for each in one or more Dockerfile)
1. USER
2. RUN  run a command in a cont
3. ENV
4. CMD
5. RUN
6. ENTRYPOINT
7. EXPOSE
8. VOLUME
46. Dockerhub:-
Find a application you care about on docker hub.
Launch the container.
Install another application in it.
Save (commit) the image.
Upload that to docker hub in your account and share it with a colleague, ask them to use your image and run the container out of it in their machine/vm.